ALL RIGHT NOW I WANT TO TALK ABOUT SOMETHING CALLED THE ELECTRIC FLUX.
ALL RIGHT.
THE ELECTRIC FLUX has a basic definition.
We call it Fi and usually I put a little subscript E TO REMIND ME THAT I'M TALKING ABOUT THE ELECTRIC
FLUX.
First of all this is a scalar quantity so it's just the number.
Having trouble here a scalar in it's defined in terms of two vectors.
One of them is the electric field vector and it's a scalar product with an area vector.
I'll get back to this in a minute.
Let me just kind of write this down this here's a scalar product between two vectors
if you want to write the scalar products slightly differently you can do it using just the definition
of the scalar product and it ends up looking like the definition over here.
OK so the flux is equal to the magnitude over here it's just the magnitude of the electric field.
The magnitude of the area and theta here is actually the angle between the electric field and this area.
So it's kind of a little bit of the talk about area in terms of a vector but let's do that in just a
second here.
You could see right here in the figure here that it's defined that if I have a square plate in this
case if I take a direction that is perpendicular to the plane that's kind of what it says here.
That is the direction of the area.
So for example if I have a circular area here right here in the plane let me draw a set of coordinates
just so we can kind of see something.
So imagine this here was X Y and then that would make Z like in this direction.
Okay.
So the area for this particular circle.
Well first of all I would have a particular radius.
The magnitude of the area.
How big is the area of that circle would be pi are squared.
What about the direction.
How would you define the direction of the area if I wanted to define it as a vector over here.
Again you have to draw a vector that's perpendicular to the plane so perpendicular to the plane would
be this direction.
This would be the direction of the area and you could see right here at the perpendicular to the plane
of that circle.
So over here I would simply write it in the z direction.
Okay.
Knowing the direction is important because of this angle theta that angle theta is always the angle
between the area of vector and the electric field vector right.
You could see it right here in the figure.
So the first definition I have here highlighted in green is for the case where you have a uniform electric
field.
In this case the electric field points from the left hand side all the way to the right hand side.
And it's more or less constant everywhere.
So the flux if you look at it it basically counts right.
It's a number that is associated with the number of electric field lines that go through a certain surface.
One more definition this here is actually an open surface.
It's just one surface out in space.
This is also an open surface.
When we talk about something in the next lecture called Gauss is law we're gonna be interested in close
surface a close surface would represent like a cube or a sphere for example something that has no holes
in it that's completely closed an open surface would just represent one surface from a cube for example
one of the walls of the cube that would represent an open surface All right.
So this is our definition for electric flux and this is the case where E is uniform all we say is constant
in space.
So the definition is pretty straightforward.
Now we've looked at point charges and maybe fields from wires or you're going to see later on fields
from stacking a whole bunch of point charges on top of each other.
In that case the field is not constant everywhere in space.
All right.
If you remember from point charges let's me just write it over here.
Four point charge.
My equation for the electric field a magnitude any way was k q divided by our squared and R was the
distance from that point charge.
You can see here that the field is not uniform.
So actually the electric FLUX AND IF YOU WANTED TO CALCULATE THE ELECTRIC FLUX what you would need to
do is really you'd have to integrate over the entire surface.
So what you have to do is you have to take your surface and break it down into a whole bunch of smaller
little slices.
Each one of these little slices has an area and it also could have a direction right if that area is
curved.
It's a little bit more complicated to do it this way but if you're taking a calculus based course you
might want to do this.
We're gonna see later on when we're talk about GAUSS LAW THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME simplifications we're
gonna use this second form of the equation.
Let me highlight here here in a different color.
We're gonna use this form of the equation but we're gonna simplify because there are cases where you
can simplify this form of the equation.
OK but you might see this one looks more complicated but really all you're doing is you're adding the
electric flux due to each little area and you have to do this because the electric field is not uniform
everywhere in space.
All right.
So we have two definitions.
I want to go back to the case that I have highlighted in green here and look at this angle theta and
a little bit more detail.